---
title: AWS Transfer for SFTP
slug: aws-transfer-for-sftp
---

AWS Transfer for SFTP is a managed service that makes it easy to transfer files over the Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP). It provides a secure and reliable way to transfer files between your on-premises systems and AWS storage services, such as Amazon S3 and Amazon Elastic File System (EFS).

Here is some short information about AWS Transfer for SFTP that you will need to know to pass the AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate exam:

- AWS Transfer for SFTP is a managed service that makes it easy to transfer files over SFTP, FTPS, and FTP.
- AWS Transfer for SFTP provides a secure and reliable way to transfer files between your on-premises systems and AWS storage services.
- AWS Transfer for SFTP supports a variety of SFTP clients, including WinSCP, Cyberduck, and FileZilla.
- AWS Transfer for SFTP provides a variety of features to help you manage your file transfers, including:
- User and group management (including integration with AWS IAM and Active Directory)
- Access control (using IAM roles and policies)
- Activity logging (via CloudTrail)
- File transfer notifications (using Amazon SNS)
- Support for multiple authentication methods, including password, SSH keys, and directory service integration.

Here are some additional details about AWS Transfer for SFTP that you may want to know:

- AWS Transfer for SFTP can be used to transfer files of any size, from small text files to large video files.
- AWS Transfer for SFTP can be used to transfer files between your on-premises systems and AWS storage services in any AWS Region.
- AWS Transfer for SFTP can be integrated with a variety of other AWS services, such as Amazon CloudTrail and Amazon CloudWatch.

AWS Transfer for SFTP is a powerful tool for transferring files over SFTP securely and reliably. It is easy to use and it provides a variety of features to help you manage your file transfers efficiently.
