---
title: Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS)
slug: amazon-simple-notification-service-sns
---

Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS) is a fully managed pub/sub messaging service that enables you to decouple microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications. SNS provides a simple, reliable, and scalable way to notify multiple subscribers about the availability of new data, such as messages in a queue or events in a database.

Here is some short information about Amazon SNS that you will need to know to pass the AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate exam:

- SNS is a pub/sub messaging service, which means that publishers send messages to topics, and subscribers receive messages from topics.
- SNS is a fully managed service, so you don't have to worry about provisioning, managing, or scaling your messaging infrastructure.
- SNS is highly available and durable, and it can scale to millions of messages per second.
- SNS is cost-effective, and it offers a variety of features to help you save money, such as pay-as-you-go pricing and dead-letter queues.
- SNS can be used to decouple and scale a wide range of applications and microservices, including web applications, mobile applications, and IoT applications.

Here are some additional details about Amazon SNS that you may want to know:

- SNS topics can have multiple subscribers, and subscribers can subscribe to multiple topics.
- SNS messages can be sent in a variety of formats, including JSON, XML, and raw text.
- SNS messages can be encrypted at rest (SSE) and in transit (HTTPS).
- SNS messages can be delivered to a variety of endpoints, including email, SMS, HTTP/S, Amazon SQS queues, AWS Lambda functions, mobile push notifications, and mobile push notifications.
- SNS can be integrated with a variety of other AWS services, such as Amazon EC2, Amazon Lambda, Amazon CloudWatch, AWS EventBridge, and AWS Kinesis Data Firehose.
- SNS supports FIFO topics for strict message ordering, deduplication, and message grouping.
