---
title: AWS CloudTrail
slug: aws-cloudtrail
---

AWS CloudTrail is a service that enables governance, compliance, operational auditing, and risk mitigation by capturing, logging, storing, and delivering event log files that record API calls made to your AWS account and your resources. With CloudTrail, you can track user activity and API usage across your AWS services and resources.

Here is some short information you will need to pass the AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate exam:

- CloudTrail is a fully managed service that continuously logs all API calls made to your AWS account and your resources.
- CloudTrail logs can be delivered to Amazon S3 and Amazon CloudWatch Logs.
- CloudTrail logs can be used to track user activity, troubleshoot problems, and audit your AWS environment.
- CloudTrail logs can be retained for up to two years.

Here are some additional details that you may want to know:

- CloudTrail logs can be filtered to only include events that are of interest to you.
- CloudTrail logs can be used to create alerts and notifications via CloudWatch Alarms.
- CloudTrail logs can be integrated with other AWS services, such as Amazon IAM, Amazon GuardDuty, and AWS Security Hub.
- CloudTrail Lake allows for immutable storage and SQL-based querying of events.
- CloudTrail Insights for anomaly detection.

Example use cases of CloudTrail:

- **Auditing:** CloudTrail logs can be used to audit all API calls made to your AWS account and your resources. This can help you to identify any suspicious activity or unauthorized access to your resources.
- **Troubleshooting:** CloudTrail logs can be used to troubleshoot problems with your AWS resources. For example, if you are experiencing a performance issue, you can review your CloudTrail logs to see what API calls were made leading up to the issue.
- **Compliance:** CloudTrail logs can be used to help you comply with various industry regulations. For example, if you are subject to HIPAA compliance, you can use CloudTrail logs to track all access to your protected health information (PHI).
